Hello and welcome back to the advanced course on our programming.
This is going to be a quick tutorial and we're going to understand what is a missing value in our missing
values are represented by the symbol and a.
So this is a special variable as you can see it's highlighted in red.
So let's read a little bit about it.
If he type in questionmark and say and then look at our pop up window here and we zoom in a bit you
can see that here and a stands for not available or missing values.
And L.A. is a logical constant of length 1 which contains a missing value indicator and some some additional
information which you're not going to go into right now.
So what is and then a in that case why is it logical so we already know a couple of logical constants
right.
We know the true and false.
So now they're telling us that there's a third one which is an an a.
So let's have a look at that in a bit more detail.
So we already know that we have.
True which is a logical concept.
We have false which allows real concern and the representation for truth is actually a one representation
for Forces 0.
But now we've been told that there's another one a third a logical concern which is an end and they
.
So how do we go about this how to understand this.
Well the thing is that in programming oftentimes especially in data science data mining analytics oftentimes
it is a case that a value is missing.
So for instance there's no like there's no numeric value in a column that they're supposed to be and
that value is missing or there could be a Boolean column where they could be true or false or what happens
if the value is missing.
Let's have a look an example let's say that's answer the question how many Carstares does Mike have
right.
We can answer the question like has one car right.
We could answer the question Mike has two cars or 50 cars or maybe Mike and Mike has zero cars.
Right.
So basically these can be looked at as.
Or if we pose a question as does Mike have a car.
And the answer is true or does Mike have a car the answer is false.
But what if we don't know the answer if we don't know whether it has or doesn't have a car.
How do we populate that field in that case we can say false because that would mean he doesn't have
a car.
Right.
So we would have to say and that's the logic behind the name and this kind of ventures into the field
of three valued logic or ternary or trivalent logic which is a whole area of mathematics.
But we're not going to venture in that deep into there we're just going to look at the implications
this has on programming.
So for instance I can what can I do if these variables right.
What can I do if the existing logical constants are you know.
Well I can compare them I can say.
True right.
I want to check if true is equal to false.
Let's have a look at that.
The answer is false is not equals false.
Makes sense.
I can check if true is equals to 5.
True is not equal to 5.
Can check if true is equals to 1.
That will be true because that is the representation of one.
I can check same thing for false.
I can check if false x equals to 4 for instance.
Not if I check your false equals to false.
The answer will be true right because false does equal to false and I can check if false equals to zero
.
The answer is true because false is zero.
That's how it's presented in programming.
But now can I do the same thing if any.
Can I check if and and and they equals to true.
What do you think the answer is here.
Well you'd think the answer would be false right.
So that is not icles true so would be false.
But in reality the answer is A.
So what if I want to check if an array is equal to true or false.
Again it's an end and they if I check and A's equals to 15 is also and they can choke of 15 equals and
also an A.
Can I check if N and NE is equal to and ne is.
Surely this has to be true right and once again we get.
And they.
And why is that.
Well that is because we are comparing a missing value to something also missing value compared to True
or false.
We don't know if what the result is so the result is again a missing mail.
And even when you compare missing value to missing value the result is going to be a missing value.
That's how programming works is very similar to what normal is in a scale if you know ASCII programming
.
So and a you can look at and in a as a null in a school and basically represents a missing value cannot
compare and way to anything else including another and it.
And that poses some implications that we're going to have to deal with going forward in these tutorials
.
But for now that's all I wanted to show you about their name just to make sure that we're on the same
page that it's a third type of logical variable and it's very specific and very special in the way that
it compares to other things and that obviously we're going to have to deal with it in certain special
ways.
And I look forward to seeing you on the next tutorial.
Until then happy coding